An explosion ripped through a crowd outside the entrance of a mosque in central Kabul on Sunday, leaving a number of people dead, a senior Taliban spokesman said.
The blast targeted the gates of the Eidgah Mosque in the Afghan capital, where a funeral service was being held for the mother of Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Muhajid, who tweeted that the blast had claimed the lives of civilians.
It was not immediately clear how many people were killed or injured in the attack, but the explosion appeared to be targeting senior Taliban leadership.
Emergency NGO, an Italian nonprofit that runs a hospital in Kabul, said on Twitter that it was treating four people wounded in the explosion.
Reports on social media described a large detonation and emergency services rushing to the scene.
No one has claimed responsibility for the bombing and the Taliban have not yet announced officially who they blame for the attack.
Later on Sunday night, Kabul was rocked by more explosions and sustained gunfire in what appeared to be a Taliban operation against an ISIS cell. Images from the scene posted by local media showed at least two sizeable blasts outside an apartment block.
Taliban spokesman Mujahid said the operation "completely destroyed" an ISIS cell.
Japan's Fumio Kishida took office as the country's new Prime Minister on Monday, tasked with leading the world's third-largest economy out of the coronavirus pandemic.
Kishida, 64, who was elected leader of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) last week, was officially confirmed as the country's 100th Prime Minster following a parliamentary vote -- his elevation all but a given due to the LDP's majority in the lower house.
Following the vote, Kishida announced his new Cabinet, which is stacked with allies of former Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. Of the 20 members, 13 have no previous Cabinet experience, three are women and the average age is 61.
A moderate liberal regarded as a stabilizing hand, Kishida inherits a Japan that has suffered surging Covid-19 infections, a stagnating economy, a rapidly aging population and increasing tensions with China.
Kishida served as the country's foreign minister from 2012 to 2017 under Abe, Japan's longest-serving Prime Minister. He succeeds outgoing Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga, who announced earlier this month he would not run in his party's leadership election following a turbulent term marked by a slump in public support as he struggled to contain the coronavirus.
"Last night, a special unit of the Mujahideen of the Islamic Emirate carried out an operation against ISIS insurgents in Kabul's Police District 17. As a result of this operation, which was very decisive and successful, the ISIS center was completely destroyed and all the ISIS members in it were killed," Mujahid said on Twitter.
A little more than a month since insurgents seized control of Afghanistan, taking control of major cities and installing themselves in the presidential palace in Kabul, the Taliban's new interim government is facing a range of threats from internal enemies.
A deadly suicide attack at Kabul's airport in August and a spate of bombings targeting members of the Taliban in the eastern Afghan city of Jalalabad, all claimed by the group IS Khorasan (ISIS-K), an affiliate of ISIS, have highlighted the threat that other violent militant groups pose to the country's stability and the Taliban's rule.
In recent days, the Taliban have conducted several operations targeting ISIS-K militants. The group claimed to have killed at least nine ISIS-K members and detained five others in two operations on Friday, targeting ISIS hideouts in the central Afghanistan province of Parwan, according to local Taliban police chief Maulvi Abdul Qadir Haqqani.  
Parwan province neighbors Kabul province, with the capital's Police District 17 -- where Sunday's operation took place -- bordering Parwan.
Eyewitnesses told a local journalist that women and children were killed in the operation in Parwan, a claim confirmed by local police chief Haqqani.
What to expect from Kishida's administration
Kishida has promised a "new capitalism" that includes narrowing the income gap and boosting consumer spending. He said the eponymous economic policies of Abe -- known as "Abenomics" -- failed to "trickle down" from the rich to the poor. He has also proposed a hefty recovery package worth "several tens of trillions" of yen to steer Japan's economy out of its pandemic-induced slump.
"A deep feeling among the Japanese people that this gap between the haves and have-nots, the gap between wealth, wages and opportunity is increasing," Henry said.
Kishida will also take on the country's coronavirus response. Japan has vaccinated 60% of its population against Covid-19, and last week the country lifted its state of emergency amid a drop in infections. Social and business restrictions are gradually easing and Japan loosened entry restrictions for some visitors. But there are concerns the virus could make a resurgence over the winter months.
On foreign policy, Kishida has committed to "the realization of a free and open Indo-Pacific." His predecessor Suga attended the first in-person meeting of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, known as "the Quad," an informal strategic forum of the United States, Australia, Japan and India, in the US last month.
Japan's Fumio Kishida took office as the country's new Prime Minister on Monday, tasked with leading the world's third-largest economy out of the coronavirus pandemic.
Kishida, 64, who was elected leader of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) last week, was officially confirmed as the country's 100th Prime Minster following a parliamentary vote -- his elevation all but a given due to the LDP's majority in the lower house.
Following the vote, Kishida announced his new Cabinet, which is stacked with allies of former Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. Of the 20 members, 13 have no previous Cabinet experience, three are women and the average age is 61.
A moderate liberal regarded as a stabilizing hand, Kishida inherits a Japan that has suffered surging Covid-19 infections, a stagnating economy, a rapidly aging population and increasing tensions with China.
Kishida served as the country's foreign minister from 2012 to 2017 under Abe, Japan's longest-serving Prime Minister. He succeeds outgoing Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga, who announced earlier this month he would not run in his party's leadership election following a turbulent term marked by a slump in public support as he struggled to contain the coronavirus.